.\" $Revision: 1.14 $
.TH DEXPIRE 8
.SH NAME
dexpire \- Diablo program to expire article files
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dexpire
.B \-a|n
[
.B \-c0
]
[
.B \-h0|1
]
[
.B \-k
]
[
.B \-n
]
[
.B \-O[n]
]
[
.B \-o
]
[
.B \-q
]
[
.B \-R nn:#
]
[
.B \-Snn
]
[
.B \-s[#[:#]]
]
[
.B \-u
]
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-z
]
[
.B \-C diablo.config
]
[
.B \-d[n]
]
[
.B \-V
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR DExpire 
does an expire run on the history file, removing expired articles and 
updating (but not rewriting) the history file as appropriate.  DExpire
operates in a FIFO manner, removing the oldest spool files first.
It will remove spool directories one at a time until one of the
expire targets specified in dspool.ctl is reached. This process is
run for each spool object and repeatedly until all requirements
for all spools are met.
.PP
.B \-a
.PP
This option tells dexpire to actually remove files. The default is
to just print the usage if no other options are used or to
make no updates if they are. This options is required to actually
do any expire work.
.PP
.B \-c0
.PP
Tell dexpire to not perform the file removal pass. i.e: Nothing will
be done unless the ``-h1'' option is used, in which case only the
history update will be done to expire entries not found on the spool.
.PP
.B \-h0|1
.PP
Tell DExpire to *not* update or to forcibly update the history file.
The default is to only update the history files if directories were removed.
The ``-h0'' option can be used to run dexpire on a tighter scheduler,
such as once an hour, without having to eat the overhead of updating
the history file (the overhead is not significant, unless you have
a really big history file).  You should still run dexpire normally
at least four times a day, though.
The ``-h1'' option can be used to forcibly update the history file,
even if no directories were removed by dexpire. This can be useful
if you have another program/script that removes directories, or if
you do it by hand.
.PP
.B \-k
.PP
This option tells dexpire to not make any actual changes to the
history entries even if we need to do so. It is useful to get an
estimate of how much time a history update will take, without
actually making the individual updates.
.PP
.B \-n
.PP
This option tells dexpire to run through, but not make any updates.
It useful for testing what a set of options will do and a status
report will be printed (unless disabled with ``-q''). This is
the default.
.PP
.B \-O[n]
This option specifies the number of iterations to run before
exiting. The default is to run until all space/age requirements
for all spools are met, which means you could have a long running
dexpire process if the rate of incoming articles exceeds the
rate at which dexpire can remove old articles. If no number is
specified, a single dexpire pass is made.
.PP
.B \-o
.PP
Tell dexpire to write the expired message IDs to a file for later
use by dexpireover when expiring overview information. Writes to
file specified by path_dexpover_list in diablo.config, defaults to
%s/dexpover.dat, path_db based.
.PP
.B \-q
.PP
Be less verbose about what is happening. The default is to give
a status report on what is being done to stdout.
.PP
.B \-R nn:#
.PP
This option allows you to specify a free space target (in MB) for a
particular spool object. This will override the same option in dspool.ctl
or peform a check if the option is not specified in dspool.ctl. The
parameters are ``spool_number:target''.
.PP
.B \-S nn
.PP
This option is used to limit which spool objects dexpire works on. It
can be used to reduce memory requirements and run multiple, concurrent
instances of dexpire on different spools.
.PP
.B \-s[#]
.PP
This option tells dexpire that it is expiring on a softupdates-mounted 
filesystem and that it needs to sync/sleep/sync/sleep after removing each
directory in order for statfs() to return reasonable values.   The sleep
time inbetween sync's may be specified.  If no number is specified, a sleep
of 1 is used.  -s2 is suggested for softupdates-mounted partitions.
If the sleep time has :10 appended, the sync's are only done after
that number of filesystems space checks (usually after that number of
file deletes).
.PP
.B \-u
This option marks all expired entries in dhistory as unexpired. It should
not be used with other options (except '-a', which is required if changes
are to be made). Note that the articles will be expired
again during the next normal dexpire run. The option is useful in the
case of accidently expired articles (possibly due to a bug).
.PP
.B \-v
This option turns on verbose mode.
.PP
.B \-z
This option is used to specify that dexpire should only check the
filesystem free space (if required) once through each iteration.
By default, dexpire checks during the initial scan and after removing
each directory. This could be a slight performance win on systems
with a slow statfs().
.PP
.B -C
allows the specification of the path of the diablo.config file to use.
.PP
.B -d[n]
will set debug mode, at optional level n.
.PP
.B -V
will print the version and exit.
.PP
After clearing out sufficient disk space, DExpire will scan the spool
directory and then update the history file in place.  This is relatively
self repairing, so you can remove spool files manually without getting things
out of synch.  However, to be completely safe you should rename a D.xxxxxxxx
directory to A.xxxxxxxx prior to rm -rf'ing it if diablo is running.
.PP
.B \-s[#]
.PP
Tell dexpire to be more verbose (this is the default).
.PP
.B \-d[#]
.PP
Turn on debugging. The higher the number specified, the more verbose
the debugging messages.
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
diablo(8), 
dicmd(8),
didump(8),
diload(8),
dnewslink(8),
doutq(8),
dexpire(8),
dexpireover(8),
diconvhist(8),
dilookup(8),
dspoolout(8),
dkp(8),
dpath(8),
diablo-kp(5),
diablo-files(5)
.PP

