.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.TH DEXPIREOVER 8
.SH NAME
dexpireover \- Diablo program to expire overview files for diablo reader side
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dexpireover
[
.B \-a
]
[
.B \-e
]
[
.B \-f dactive-kp-database
]
[
.B \-l lockwait
]
[
.B \-NB
]
[
.B \-n
]
[
.B \-O[n]
]
[
.B \-o
]
[
.B \-pN
]
[
.B \-R
]
[
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-U
]
[
.B \-v[N]
]
[
.B \-w wildcard
]
[
.B \-x
]
[
.B \-y
]
[
.B \-C diablo.config
]
[
.B \-d[n]
]
[
.B \-V
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR DExpireOver
does an expire run on the overview information the Diablo reader stores
in /news/spool/group.  It scans the directory tree for data. and over.
files and matches them up against information in the active file database
(defaults to dactive.kp).  If you do not give it the group wildcard option,
it can detect and remove over. and data. files associated with non-existant
(i.e. deleted) groups.
.PP
dexpireover will expire articles in the overview based on the 'x' option
in the dexpire.ctl file.  If the -a or -NB options are given, it will update
the active file.  dexpireover is usually run with just the -a option.
.PP
If the -e option is given, dexpireover will expire articles based on what
articles are left in your local spool. This requires a local spool.
.PP
.B \-a
.PP
This option turns on -NB, -U, -s, and -y. These are the options used
in a standard dexpireover run.
.PP
.B \-e
.PP
Tell dexpireover that spool-based expiration should be used. This option
will cause dexpireover to look up every message stored in the overview database
in the history file, and expire the article if the history entry is marked
expired. This requires that your reader machine carries a local spool,
and only articles in your local spool will be left in overview. You should
not specify this option and -o at the same time.
.PP
.B \-f dactive-KP-database-file
.PP
Specify a different active file (KP database).  The default is 
/news/dactive.kp.
.PP
.B \-l lockwait
.PP
Specify the amount of time (in seconds) to wait for a lock when resizing
or rewriting files. The default is to not resize/rewrite if the file is
locked. A value of greater than 30 seconds will have a much better chance
of being able to resize/rewrite groups because reader processes flush
their lock cache every 30 seconds (approx).
.PP
.B \-NB
.PP
Allow dexpireover to update the beginning article number in the active file.
This option is implied by -a.
.PP
.B \-n
.PP
This option guarentees that the overview and active files will NOT be 
updated, i.e. so you can do a dry run to see what dexpireover would have
done.  The -n option also sets the verbose level to 1 if it hasn't been
set with the -v option.
.PP
.B \-O[n]
.PP
Request that dexpireover delete groups which have not had new articles in 'n'
days.  If 'n' is not specified, 90 days is used.  dexpireover will also
add any missing LMTS fields to groups.  This option requires that you also specify
a wildcard via the -w option.  This option is generally used to keep the
alt groups clean.
.PP
When dexpireover deletes a newsgroup, it does not delete the overview data
for that group until the next time dexpireover is run.
.PP
WARNING: Please note that this option uses the LMTS option to determine
the age of a newsgroup. This option is updated each time an article is
received for a group and only updated by dreaderd at this time. Running
it on a feed-only server or a reader that does control-only groups may cause
active groups to expire. Use with caution.
.PP
.B \-o
.PP
Tell dexpireover that it should use the file specified by path_dexpover_list
in diablo.config (path_db based) to decide which articles should be removed
from overview. This is similar to the spool-based expiration method, but does
not perform history lookups on every article, and can be faster. This also
requires that you run dexpire with the -o option.
.PP
The 'x' option in dexpire.ctl will also be used to safeguard against stale
articles which somehow avoided being written to dexpover.dat and remain in
overview. You should probably set your 'x' value high in order to avoid
removing valid articles.
.PP
The dexpover.dat file will be removed after being read in by dexpireover.
.PP
You should not specify this option and -e at the same time.
.PP
.B \-pN
.PP
Spawn N working dexpireover processes, and one master process which
waits for the parcount children to exit. Useful for speeding up the
\-e option, when your dhistory disk(s) can support multiple dhistory
lookups at one time without slowing down linearly. Twice the number
of disks on your striped /news partition is probably not an
unreasonable number to use.
.PP
Using a value of N greater than 16 is not currently supported. Values
other than powers of 2 are likely to generate uneven load across forks.
.PP
.B \-R
.PP
Instruct dexpireover to rewrite the data.* and over.* files in
/news/spool/group.   dexpireover will attempt to dynamically size index
files based on the number of apparently valid articles in each group, and
will rewrite data files to piecemeal remove unreferenced articles.  
.PP
This works somewhat differently then expireover with standard options, takes
a lot more time, and should typically be run only once a week.  The standard
dexpireover, 'dexpireover -a', does not resize index files or rewrite data
files, it simply performs the expiration pass and deletes whole data files
if none of the articles residing in them are referenced any longer.  This
suffices for a daily expiration, but 'dexpireover -R -a' should be used once
a week to clean up the tailings.   See samples/adm/weekly.reader
.PP
.B \-s
.PP
This options is like -R but only resizes the over.* files in /news/spool/group.
It does not attempt to trim data.* files in /news/spool/group.  This option
has no effect on over.* files that are already properly sized, unlike -R which
rewrites the over.* files whether they are properly sized or not.
.PP
Overview index files may only be resized if no dreaderd's have them open.
If any do, the resize will fail (dexpireover will not be able to obtain the
lock).  Since dexpireover is typically run once an hour, the resize will be
retried on each run until it succeeds.  If you need to resize a group in
realtime and you cant due to existing locks, you must unfortunately kill 
dreaderd, do the operation, then restart dreaderd.
.PP
.B \-U
.PP
Allow dexpireover to add missing CTS fields (group-creation-time-stamp field).
Earlier test releases didn't add this field.  dexpireover can fixup these
records.
.PP
.B \-v
.PP
This option turns on verbose output.
.PP
.B \-w wildcard
.PP
Restrict operations to the specified groups.  Note: if you specify a wildcard,
dexpireover will not be able to prune deleted groups from the overview
directory structure.
.PP
.B \-x
.PP
The normal operation for adjusting the maxarts value for a group is to
reduce maxarts by 1/3 if numarts < than 1/2 of maxarts or to
increase maxarts by 1/3 if numarts > 2/3 of maxarts. Under normal
operation, this works well. The ``-x'' option changes this policy to
adjust the maxarts depending on a factor of the max article age and
the expire time of the group. This option has not been extensively
tested and should be avoided in normal operation.
.PP
.B \-y
.PP
Perform the actual expire of headers as specified in dexpire.ctl.
Without this option, no headers are expired although groups can
still be resized or overview files rebuilt.
.PP
.B -C
allows the specification of the path of the diablo.config file to use.
.PP
.B -d[n]
will set debug mode, at optional level n.
.PP
.B -V
will print the version and exit.
.PP
.SH INTERRUPTING
Generally speaking, you should not interrupt a running dexpireover.  Doing
so will cause, at worst, one newsgroup to lose its overview.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
diablo(8), 
dicmd(8),
didump(8),
diload(8),
dnewslink(8),
doutq(8),
dexpire(8),
diconvhist(8),
dilookup(8),
dspoolout(8),
dkp(8),
dpath(8),
diablo-kp(5),
diablo-files(5)
.PP
