.\" $Revision: 1.3 $
.\" Beaten into shape with a large axe by Frank Durda IV 12-Jan-2005
.TH DGRPCTL 8
.SH NAME
dgrpctl \- add, delete and modify newsgroups in the active file.
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dgrpctl
[\fB-s\fR]
.B newgroup 
.I newsgroup
.B [y|m] \fR["[\fImoderator\fR]" ["\fIdescription\fR"]]
.PP
.B dgrpctl
[\fB-s\fR]
.B rmgroup 
.I newsgroup
.PP
.B dgrpctl
[\fB-s\fR]
.B groupinfo
.I newsgroup
.PP
.B dgrpctl
[\fB-s\fR]
.B adjust
.I newsgroup
.B NB|NE|NX 
.B [+|-|=]\fIvalue\fR
.PP
.PP
.B dgrpctl
[\fB-s\fR]
.B checkgroups
.I [exec] filename\fB|-\fR
.PP
.PP
.B dgrpctl
[\fB-s\fR] \fBlistactive\fR [\fIwildmat\fR]
.PP
.B dgrpctl
[\fB-s\fR]
.B listnewsgroups \fR[\fIwildmat\fR]
.PP
.B dgrpctl
[\fB-s\fR]
.B listgrouphash \fR[\fIwildmat\fR [\fIhash\fR]]
.PP
.B dgrpctl
[\fB-s\fR]
.B listgrouphashfile \fR[\fIwildmat\fR[\fIhash\fR]]
.PP
.PP
.B dgrpctl -V


.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR Dgrpctl
allows several administrative and maintenance functions to be performed on
newsgroups.  Changes are made to the active file (\fIdactive.kp(5)\fR located
on the reader, or if \fB-s\fR is specified, on the server (as specified by the
\fIpath_server_dactive\fR parameter in \fBdiablo.config(5)\fR.
.P

.SH COMMANDS
.B newgroup
adds \fInewsgroup\fR to the specified active file and sets attributes for
that group or updates attributes if the group already exists.  \fIFlags\fR
may be set to \fBY\fR for a normal group, or \fBM\fR for a moderated groups.
(Other group states are not supported.) Use "" to specify no moderator e-mail
address when the \fInewsgroups\fR field is being specified.  The content of
the \fImoderator\fR field is not currently used and is reserved for future
use.  if provided, the \fInewsgroups\fR text is shown when the NNTP/NNRP
client issues a "LIST NEWSGROUPS" command.

.B rmgroup
removes the specified \fInewsgroup\fR from the specified active file.

.B groupinfo
displays all the technical attributes of the specified \fInewsgroup\fR that
are maintained in the active database file \fIdactive.kp\fR.  The path to
the overview database for that group is also shown.

.B adjust
changes the specified article numbering element for \fInewsgroup\fR.
\fBNB\fR is the lowest available article number on the reader, \fBNE\fR is
the highest available article number on the reader, and \fBNX\fR is the
highest article number assigned by the server.

By default, the specified \fIvalue\fR is added to the existing entry.  (This
is the historical behavior of \fBdgrpctl\fR.) Prefixing \fIvalue\fR with
"=" sets the stored entry to \fIvalue\fR.  \fIValue\fR is always treated as
a decimal value. (In earlier versions, a leading zero on the value indicated
that an octal value was being provided.)

.B checkgroups
accepts list of groups in "checkgroups" format from the
\fIfilename\fR or from \fB-\fR (stdin).
DOES THIS MAKE THE CHANGES OR PROVIDE A LIST FOR APPROVAL?

.B listactive
produces 
lists information on news groups that are contained in the active
news group database \fBdactive.kp\fR(5).  If no \fIwildmat\fR
pattern is specified, then all groups in the database are
listed.  If a \fIwildmat\fR pattern is provided, only
groups that match the pattern are displayed.  The command
and its output behave identical to the NNTP "LIST" or
"LIST ACTIVE" commands.  (See below for information on
\fIwildmat\fR patterns.)

.B listnewsgroups
produces the same results as the NNTP "LIST NEWSGROUPS"
command.  If no pattern is displayed, the stored
descriptions of all groups in the active news group
database \fBdactive.kp\fR(5) are shown.  If a
\fIwildmat\fR pattern is provided, only descriptions of
groups that match the pattern are shown.

.B listgrouphash 
displays the hash code that diablo creates for each group name.
If a \fIwildmat\fR pattern is provided, all groups that match
the pattern are displayed, along with their hash value.
If a hash value is provided, if a group name matches that
hash value, that group name is displayed.  For example:
.in +0.5i
.nf

/news/dbin/dgrpctl listgrouphash '*sys.t*'
vvcgiadtevn0ed0owhr5t comp.sys.tahoe
4iddfhey5e0jrnp1ojjhl comp.sys.tandem
uwhvdjfqhrr01eh11shzn comp.sys.tandy
jkexxf1irwpvulpbarfke comp.sys.ti
ktzj1yw24mma0kgpqgeaw comp.sys.ti.explorer
gnhwcuusrzu1bwgn51r1f comp.sys.transputer
xyat0c03sp0wc5yi1zqkx tnn.forum.soft-sys.tippler
.fi
.in -0.5i

.B listgrouphashfile
will show the path to the overview database 
for all groups in the active news group database \fBdactive.kp\fR"
or a subset of entries that match the \fIwildmat\fR pattern, if a
pattern is provided.
For example:
.in +0.5i
.nf

/news/dbin/dgrpctl listgrouphashfile '*sys.t*'
069/04a/vvcgiadtevn0ed0owhr5t.0.o.32.0 comp.sys.tahoe
01a/03c/4iddfhey5e0jrnp1ojjhl.0.o.32.0 comp.sys.tandem
01f/02e/uwhvdjfqhrr01eh11shzn.0.o.32.0 comp.sys.tandy
03e/013/jkexxf1irwpvulpbarfke.0.o.32.0 comp.sys.ti
018/008/ktzj1yw24mma0kgpqgeaw.0.o.32.0 comp.sys.ti.explorer
041/05d/gnhwcuusrzu1bwgn51r1f.0.o.32.0 comp.sys.transputer
061/03f/xyat0c03sp0wc5yi1zqkx.0.o.32.0 tnn.forum.soft-sys.tippler
.fi
.in -0.5i

.SH WILDMAT PATTERNS
Similar to those found in the \fBfind\fR(1) command.  Patterns are
anchored to the beginning and end of each item that is to be compared.
Five special pattern matching characters allow for none or more characters
to be matched with certain or any values.  The special characters are:
.P
.in +0.5i
.ti -0.5i
*	Matches zero or more characters at this position.
.ti -0.5i
?	Matches a single character at this position.
.ti -0.5i
[]	One or more sets or ranges of characters may be described that will
match a single character in this position.  \fB[a-cXYZA-Cq0-3]\fR will
match any of the characters a, b, c, X, Y, Z, A, B, C, q, 0, 1, 2,
and 3 in this position.  [] must appear in pairs.
.ti -0.5i
^	In front of a range of characters matches all but the
specified characters or ranges of characters.  \fB^[A-Z]\fR will match
any character except the upper-case letters A through Z.
.ti -0.5i
\\	Means the following character is to be matched literally.  So
\fB\\?\fR means the question-mark character must be found in
the indicated position.
.in -0.5i
.P
The \fIwildmat\fR pattern is accepted by a NNTP/NNRP server in the
\fBLIST\fR, \fBLIST ACTIVE\fR, \fBLIST NEWSGROUPS\fR, in any other
\fBLIST\fR \fIoption\fR commands a given server provides as well as the
\fBXPAT\fR command.
.P
Additional information on the \fIwildmat\fR format can be found in
\fBRFC 2980, section 3.3.\fR

.SH "SEE ALSO"
diablo(8), 
dicmd(8),
didump(8),
diload(8),
dnewslink(8),
doutq(8),
dexpire(8),
dexpireover(8),
diconvhist(8),
dilookup(8),
dspoolout(8),
dkp(8),
dpath(8),
diablo-kp(5),
diablo-files(5),
RFC 977,
RFC 2980
.PP

