.\" $Revision: 1.3 $
.TH DHISEXPIRE 8
.SH NAME
dhisexpire \- Diablo program to clean the history file
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhisexpire
[
.B \-a
[
.B \-m
]
[
.B \-o old-dhistory-file
]
[
.B \-p
]
[
.B \-r remember
]
[
.B \-T seconds
]
[
.B \-u
]
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-x
]
[
.B \-C diablo.config
]
[
.B \-d[n]
]
[
.B \-V
]
dhistory-file
[
new-dhistory-file
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR DHisExpire 
This program is used to remove stale history entries by doing a
complete history rebuild. This process is required on a regular basis
(usually weekly) to prevent the history file from growing too big.
This program has been written to prevent any downtime to the server,
apart from a short pause at the end while the history file is
switched over (if the ``-a'' option is used). Incoming connections
are not closed, unless an error is detected.
.PP
Note that if the ``-a'' option is not used, the new history file
could become stale immediately and should not be used if the
diablo server is accepting incoming articles, otherwise some articles
will not be recorded in the new history.
.PP
When disabling the live history file to switch to the new one, the
history header magic flag is modified to prevent diablo processes from
using the file (they auto-detect and switch to the new one if
available). The ``-u'' option can be used on the old history file
to set the correct header magic, so that it can be used again.
.PP
The name of the history file is a required option. The new history
path/filename can be (optionally) specified as an extra option.
.PP
.B \-a
.PP
This option is required if the rebuilt history file is to be
used. The old history is renamed with ``.bak'' tagged onto the
and the history header magic flag is marked as invalid. By default,
the expire process doesn't move the new history file into place
and creates the new history file with ``.new'' tagged into the end.
.PP
.B \-m
.PP
By default, dhisexpire can only rename files on the same filesystem
Using this option, causes dhisexpire to do a full copy of the file
rather than a rename, allowing the file to be moved across filesystems.
.PP
.B \-o old-dhistory-file
.PP
Specify the path/filename to use to store the backup of the old history
file. By default, the file is path_to_history/dhistory.bak. Specifying
a filename of ``0'' causes dhisexpire to not make a backup of the
old history file.
.PP
.B \-p
.PP
With this option, the progress of the expire is displayed to stderr.
Note that if the diablo server is running and receiving articles,
the total entries may be lower than the actual entries and will be
adjusted when dhisexpire reaches the end.
.PP
.B \-r nn
.PP
Set the number of days that expired articles are kept in the history
file. The default is obtained from the ``rememberdays'' value in
diablo.config.
.PP
.B \-T nn
.PP
This option can be used to prevent old history entries from being
moved to the new history fule. The number specified is the number
of seconds that entries are valid and anything older will be
dropped from the history. WARNING: The old entries cannot be
recovered. This option is not normally used.
.PP
.B \-u
Set the history header magic flag to be valid again. When the history
rewrite is complete, the history header magic flag is marked as
invalid to prevent live processes from using it and to indicate to
them that a new history file is available.
.PP
.B \-v
This option turns on verbose mode.
.PP
.B -C
allows the specification of the path of the diablo.config file to use.
.PP
.B -d[n]
will set debug mode, at optional level n.
.PP
.B -V
will print the version and exit.
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
diablo(8), 
dicmd(8),
didump(8),
diload(8),
dnewslink(8),
doutq(8),
dexpire(8),
dexpireover(8),
diconvhist(8),
dilookup(8),
dspoolout(8),
dkp(8),
dpath(8),
diablo-kp(5),
diablo-files(5)
.PP

