.\" $Revision: 1.4 $
.TH DIABLO-KP 5
.SH NAME
diablo-kp \- General KP database support in Diablo
.PP
.SH GENERAL
.PP
Diablo uses a key-token-pair database module to manage the active file
(dactive.kp) and the intent is to use the same database module to manage
the overview cache and (group,article)->messageid translation databases for
the reader side.  Active KP databases can be manipulated through the
.B dkp
program and inactive KP databases can be manipulated with an editor.  An
editor should never be used on an active KP database.
.PP
The KP database uses an append/replace approach for writing.  Any modification
which does not change the length of a record is written in place.  Any
modification which does change the length of a record invalidates the old
record and appends a new record.  Thus things such as article number updates
in dactive.kp may be done in place.
.PP
The KP database contains embedded sort information for each record.  Sorts
are performed on the embedded information field without actually rearranging
the database file.  An append to a KP database does not require an immediate
resort.  Lookup failures go through unsorted records sequentially.  The resort
threshold is nominally 64.   The KP system stores a 
modification timestamp on close and detects a manual edit on open by comparing
the modification time of the KP database against the stored timestamp.  This 
assumes that manual edits only occur while the database is offline.  Since
sort information is stored as file offsets, the KP system will force a resort 
if a manual edit was detected.  You can also force a resort by setting
the cccccccc field in the header (the last 8 digit field on the first line
of the file) to 10000000.
.PP
Due to the resort requirement, the KP system is not designed to handle a 
high append rate on large databases.  It is expected to work well enough
with the active file (which does not require resorts under nominal operation),
article translation databases which are relatively small and not appended to
quickly, and overview caching databases for the same reason.
You can create a KP database with .B dkp -w databasename.kp
and read and write it with similar
.B dkp
commands.

.SH CLEANING
.PP
KP databases must be cleaned up occassionally.  To clean a KP database you
must first take it offline.  Then a simple egrep -v '^-' should suffice.  It is
also usually a good idea to force a resort just in case the system time is 
messed up and Diablo does not detect the edit.  See adm/biweekly.atrim for 
an example.
.PP
It is possible to clean active KP databases only if they are being used for
transient read operation.  By doing an egrep and then renaming the new file
over the old one, transient programs with open descriptors will still be able
to operate on the old version of the database.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
diablo(8), 
dicmd(8),
didump(8),
diload(8),
dnewslink(8),
doutq(8),
dexpire(8),
dexpireover(8),
diconvhist(8),
dilookup(8),
dspoolout(8),
dkp(8),
dpath(8),
diablo-files(5),
diablo-kp(5)
.PP

