.\" $Revision: 1.6 $
.TH DICMD 8
.SH NAME
dicmd \- Diablo program to manage a running diablo server
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dicmd
[
version/flush/exit/pause/go
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR DiCmd 
issues a command to the parent diablo server.  the following
commands are available:
.PP
.B flush
\- commits any buffered outbound data to their associated outbound queue
file.  Normally you rename the queue file(s), then run a flush to 'close'
diablo's reference to the file and force it to create a new file.  Unlike
INN, you can flush the queue files without renaming them first.  The queue
files are not truncated, as diablo always opens them for append.  This is
useful for precautionary purposes.
.PP
.B exit
\- asks diablo to kill its children, flush its queue file(s), and exit.
The command will not return until diablo has completed all operations and
then exited.
.PP
.B pause
\- asks diablo to kill its children and increment a pause counter.  You
must match each pause with a 
.B go
later on.  This also has the effect of closing all diablo server references 
to the history file for the duration of the pause, allowing programs such
as the weekly history cleaning run to freely operate on the history file.
Diablo refuses connections with a 502 error when paused.
.PP
.B go
\- asks diablo to decrement its pause counter.  When the counter reaches
zero, diablo will reenable incoming connections.  Diablo will not allow
the counter to go negative.
.PP
.B dumphist
\- asks the parent diablo process to call the configured dumphist program
in a blocking manner.  New connections are not accepted and articles are not
written to history for the duration of the program run.  This is intended to
help those with memory filesystems for history make periodic history file
snapshots without a lot of extra pausing and scripting.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
diablo(8), 
dicmd(8),
didump(8),
diload(8),
dnewslink(8),
doutq(8),
dexpire(8),
dexpireover(8),
diconvhist(8),
dilookup(8),
dspoolout(8),
dkp(8),
dpath(8),
diablo-kp(5),
diablo-files(5)
.PP

