.\" $Revision: 1.6 $
.TH DILOOKUP 8
.SH NAME
dilookup \- Diablo program to run searches on the dhistory file
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dilookup
[
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-V
]
[
message-id / h1.h2
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR DiLookup 
will look a message-id or hash-code pair up in the dhistory database.
The message-id must be surrounded by < >, while the hash-code pair 
consists of two hex numbers separated by a dot.  For example:
.PP
.B dilookup '<sdf$sdlfk@asdlfjk.com>'
.PP
.B dilookup D.00d9513e/00183712.005b433b.0000
.PP
.B dilookup 00183712.005b433b.0000
.PP
.B dilookup 00183712.005b433b
.PP
As you can see, DiLookup also accepts a directory/filename form,
just the filename form, or just the hash code pair.  It will silently
discard everything but the hash code pair.  When given a message-id,
DiLookup will convert the message-id to a hash code pair internally.
DiLookup will also parse message-id's directory out of queue files
which can be useful in a tail -f situation.

Valid options are:
.PP
.B \-V
.PP
Print the version number and exit.
.PP
.B \-s
.PP
Take ids from standard input instead of the command line. This is useful
if you want to look up many articles. In the mode, everything up to the
first space in the standard input is ignored in the lookup, but 
prepended to the output line.
.PP
For Diablo 3 style spools, the result is usually something like:
.PP
 [P.03/D.00fa6716/B.0b1b hv=aa63f9bf.36b5877a spool=03 gm=16410390 ex=103 off=0 len=1245 f=] GM=(15-Mar-2001 03:30:00) EX=(valid)
.PP
The hash code pair and iteration, the spool in which the article is stored,
the time in gmt-minutes when the article was received (NOT when it was 
posted!), the expiration (see EX), the offset in the spool file, the length of 
the article and flags (header-only entry). If bit 15 is set in the expiration
field, the spool is storing a header-only article. Otherwise the spool is
storing a full article.
.PP
GM= is a decoding of the gm field in human-readable GMT.
.PP
EX= decodes some bits of the the ex field.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
diablo(8), 
dicmd(8),
didump(8),
diload(8),
dnewslink(8),
doutq(8),
dexpire(8),
dexpireover(8),
diconvhist(8),
dilookup(8),
dspoolout(8),
dkp(8),
dpath(8),
diablo-kp(5),
diablo-files(5)
.PP

