.\" $Revision: 1.5 $
.TH DILOADFROMSPOOL 8
.SH NAME
diloadfromspool \- Diablo program to regenerate dhistory database from spool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B diloadfromspool
[
.B \-a
]
[
.B \-e
]
[
.B \-F dhistory-file
]
[
.B \-f
]
[
.B \-h hashtablesize
]
[
.B \-n
]
[
.B \-Q
]
[
.B \-q
]
[
.B \-S nn
]
[
.B \-u
]
[
.B \-v
]
[spooldirs/spoolfiles]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR DILoadFromSpool
will scan the entire spool, specified spool directories, or specified
spool articles.  It extracts article location, size, message-id, and
placement information and creates any missing dhistory file records.
.PP
This command is typically used to recover a lost or partially lost dhistory 
database from the spool.  The program may be run without shutting down an 
active Diablo system.
.PP
Articles are sanity-checked before being added.  The number of lines must
match the Lines: header and the NUL guard character is expected to exist
after each article.
.PP
.B -a
Instruction DILoadFromSpool to scan the entire spool.  This could take
a long time but since each spool file contains multiple articles, not as
long as scanning an equivalent INN V1 spool might take.
.PP
.B -e
A special unexpire option that only scans the history file and marks
all expired articles as unexpired. This option doesn't scan the spool.
Note that articles not found on the spool will be marked as expired
by the next run of dexpire.
.PP
.B -F dhistory-file
Allows you to specify the dhistory file to work on.  If not specified,
the diablo default dhistory file is used.  Note, however, that you MUST
specify a specific file if you use the -f option as a safety precaution.
.PP
.B -f
Turn on special-fast mode.  This locks the history file through the
entire procedure.  This also causes the base hash table to
be cached and written then written out when the load operation has
completed.  DiLoadFromSpool will create the history file you supply as 
an argument and will refuse to run if it is already pre-existing.   This
option should only be used to increase speed when creating a new dhistory
file from scratch.
.PP
.B -h hashtablesize
The default hash table size is 4 million entries (-h 4m).  You can set it to
any power of two but the suggested size is 4m or 8m.  Do NOT forget the 'm'
for million, or you will be a very unhappy camper.  If you do not specify
this option, the default in diablo.config is used, or 4m if no default exists
anywhere.
.PP
.B -n
prevents the program from actually adding any new records
.PP
.B -Q
Scan spool (ignores history and history options) for articles and
print the articles found in a format suitable for drequeue. The output
is effectively that of a queue file, with the Newsgroups: line appended.
.PP
.B -q
Turn on quiet mode.  The program prints out its progress in a less verbose
manner then usual.
.PP
.B -u
May be used with special-fast mode to re-enable checking for duplicates.
You have the advantage of locking the history file throughout the
entire operation, but can still use a pre-existing history file to 'update'.
.PP
.B -S nn
Instruct diloadfromspool to only scan the spool object specified. The
spool object is the spool object number as specified in dspool.ctl.
.PP
.B -v
Turn on verbose mode.  The program prints out its progress in a more verbose
manner then usual.
.PP
.B D.xxxxxxxx
Specify a spool directory to scan.  All B.xxxx spool files in the directory
will be scanned.  You may specify multiple spool directories on the command
line if you wish.  Note that you must be CD'd to the top of the news spool 
and you must specify the directory name in the 'D.xxxxxxxx' form.
.PP
.B D.xxxxxxxx/B.xxxx
Specify a spool file to scan.  You may specify multiple spool files
on the command line.  Note that you must be CD'd to the top of the news
spool and you must specify the spool file in the 'D.xxxxxxxx/B.xxxx' form.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
diablo(8), 
dicmd(8),
didump(8),
diload(8),
dnewslink(8),
doutq(8),
dexpire(8),
dexpireover(8),
diconvhist(8),
dilookup(8),
dspoolout(8),
dnewsfeeds(5),
dkp(8),
dpath(8),
diablo-kp(5),
diablo-files(5)
.PP

