.\" $Revision: 1.4 $
.TH DKP 8
.SH NAME
dkp \- Diablo program to manage DKP databases
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dkp [-x] [-r] [-w] [-d] [-s] [-t] filename [key [tok=data]] [ < input ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR DKP 
manages KP databases.  Currently Diablo has only one KP database,
the active file, called dactive.kp.
issues a command to the parent diablo server.  The command allows
a key and optional tok=data (for writes) to be specified on the
command line.  If no key/data is specified, DKP takes key or
key tok=data lines from the standard input.  The data may not contain
spaces, tabs, or newlines.
.PP
.B -x
\- cause the specified key (or keys on stdin, one per line) to be 
deleted from the database.
.PP
.B -r
\- lookup the specified key and print the record.
.PP
.B -w
\- write the specified tok=data to the database for the record
specified by the given key.  A record can have multiple tokens
associated with it but DKP currently accepts only one at a time.
.PP
.B -d
\- Turn on debugging
.PP
.B -s
\- Force the KP database to be sorted in-place.  This option is not
normally necessary, but is useful as a safety precaution if you
believe the database has been manually edited.
.PP
.B -t
\- Trim the KP database, removing dead records.  This will only work
if no other processes have the specified KP database open.  It should
be done on dactive.kp once a month.  If you are generating a fresh dactive.kp
from some other source, always run dkp -t on it to clear out all the temporary
junk.
.B filename
\- specify the name of the KP database file.  This is a required
parameter.

.SH General KP database maintenance
.PP
KP databases can be manually edited, but only if there are no active
references.  If you have an editor capable of performing an flock,
such as nvi, your editor will warn you if other processes have active
references to the database because the database code maintains several
locks on the database file.
.PP
KP databases can be replaced by generating a new copy and renaming it
over the old, but if active references exist they will continue to work
on the old, possibly until they close.  Since the diablo reader code
leaves active opens on the dactive.kp database, you should use only
the dkp program to fix it unless you shut down the reader entirely.
.PP
KP databases handle changes in record size by marking the old record
as deleted (a '-' instead of a '+') and appending a new record.  This
means that garbage can collect in the database file.  The garbage can
be pruned safely with 'dkp -t'.  DO NOT USE A GREP/RENAME TO PRUNE
A KP DATABASE!
.PP
Diablo gives instructions on how to prune its various KP 
databases by example, usually in the adm/ or samples/ directory.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
diablo(8), 
dicmd(8),
didump(8),
diload(8),
dnewslink(8),
doutq(8),
dexpire(8),
dexpireover(8),
diconvhist(8),
dilookup(8),
dspoolout(8),
dkp(8),
dpath(8),
diablo-kp(5),
diablo-files(5)
.PP

