.TH DOVERCTL 8
.SH NAME
doverctl \- Perform functions on the overview directory and file structure
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B overctl
[
.B \-f activefile
]
[
.B \-w wildmat
]
[
.B \-v
]
.B clean|convert
[
.B srchash dsthash
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR DOverCtl
will perform function on the overview directory and file structure as
used by dreaderd. The functions it performs are:
.PP
.B clean
.PP
cleans up the directory structure by removing empty directories and
invalid or old files that are not used by the current overview hash
method. This option can be used at any time.
.PP
.B convert
srchash dsthash
.PP
converts from one overview hash format to another. This option can take
a long time (depending on the size of the overview database and number
of groups) and
.B must not be run whilst other programs are accessing the overview database.
Do not forget to set the new hash method in diablo.config. This change
can be made before or after doverctl is run.
The currently supported hash methods are:
.PP
.B crc
\- the default hash method. This method is the original method used by
dreaderd, but does have hash conflicts and doesn't allow a very flexible
directory structure.
.PP
.B md5-32
uses a 32 bit base64 type conversion of an md5 hash of the newsgroup name.
.PP
.B md5-64
uses base64 type conversion of an md5 hash of the newsgroup name. This method
uses a longer character set than md5-32.
.PP
The md5 hash methods can also take the following options:
.PP
.B /N
sets the number of directories to be created. Multiple of these options can
be specified, with successive options creating an extra level of directories.
e.g: /8/512 would create 8 directories under /news/spool/group with each of
those 8 directories containing 512 directories. The directory name is made
by creating a hash of the remaining characters in the group filename after
skipping the directory level number of characters. Full details of this
algorithm can be found in the source.
.PP
.B \\\N
sets the number of charatcers of the hash to use for the directory name (max
of 9). e,g: For md5-32\\1\\2 on a hash of 'xhpgbjwwlrq2tl1pfq1epq', the
directory structure would be:
.PP
/news/spool/group/x/hp/
.PP
giving 32 directories at the first level and 32*32 = 1024 dirs at the
second level.
.PP
The following option can be used with all hash methods:
.PP
.B :B
sets the number of bytes (characters) of the hash to use. The default is
22, which is the maximum length. Using a shorter length will allow shorter
filenames, but increases the chance of hash collisions.
.PP
.B \-v
sets a more verbose logging level.
.PP
.B \-f activefile
Sets which active file to use when obtaining the list of newsgroups.
.PP
.B \-w wildmat
limits the newsgroups that are converted. This option is probably not useful
outside testing as a hash method is global and not specific to groups.
.PP
.B \-m
By default, doverctl uses the rename() library call for speed, but this
is unlikely to work across filesystem boundaries. If your spool is split
across filesystems, you will need to use this option to to force a
file copy, instead of a rename.
.PP
WARNING: Be very careful running this utility - you can easily lose your
entire header DB. Ensure that you set the new hash method in diablo.config
otherwise the next run of dexpireover will remove everything. 
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
diablo(8), 
dicmd(8),
didump(8),
diload(8),
dnewslink(8),
doutq(8),
dexpire(8),
dexpireover(8),
diconvhist(8),
dilookup(8),
dspoolout(8),
dkp(8),
dpath(8),
diablo-kp(5),
diablo-files(5)
.PP

