.\" $Revision: 1.5 $
.TH DSPOOLOUT 8
.SH NAME
dspoolout \- Diablo program to sequence and flush outbound queue files
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dspoolout
[
.B \-q
]
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-n
]
[
.B \-s minutes
]
[
.B \-m maxrun
]
[
.B \-T txbufsize
]
[
.B \-R rxbufsize
]
[
.B \-B ip
]
[
.B \-f configfile
]
[
.B label
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR DSpoolout 
reads the
.B dnntpspool.ctl
file and applies a sequence number to the outbound queue files maintained
by diablo in the
.B dqueue
directory.  This involves renaming each queue file then running a dicmd
to flush them.  DSpoolout is normally run from cron once every 5 minutes.
The control file tells DSpoolout how many queue files to maintain for any
given outbound feed and how many
.B dnewslink
processes to run in parallel for each outbound feed.  The default is 2,
and may be changed by the
.B \-m maxrun
option.  The
.B dnewslink
program itself is able to process multiple queue files in sequence, and 
judicious use of flock() prevents collisions when multiple processes are
run on the same range of sequence numbers.  DSpoolout manages the whole
affair.  DSpoolout can also run smart based on whether the feeds are able
to stay caught up.  The 
.B \-s minutes
option tells DSpoolout how often to sequence out a new outbound queue
file and (potentially) run more dnewslinks when the feed is unable to 
stay caught up with our queue files.  If the feed is able to stay
caught up, the option is ignored and DSpoolout attempts to handle the
feed every time it is run.  This allows you to reduce the requeueing
latency between incoming and outgoing feeds for those feeds able to
handle your article rate without overloading the machine when you
have many feeds.
.PP
The
.B \-B
option causes DSpoolout to pass the specified IP address to dnewslink,
specifying the local address to be used for all outbound NNTP sessions.
.PP
The 
.B \-n
option causes dspoolout to flush and rotate the queue files without
executing any dnewslink's.
.PP
An optional queue label may be specified to restrict dspoolout's operation
to a single entry.  Otherwise, all entries are run.
.PP
.B \-f configfile
Specify a configuration file other then dspoolout.ctl.  If the configuration
file is not an absolute path, diablo's news home is prepended to it.
.PP
The
.B \-T
and
.B \-R
options set the transmit and receive TCP buffer size for dnewslink.  The
defaults are usually ok, but if you want to be frugal you can usually
reduce the receive buffer size without blowing the efficiency.
.PP
It is suggested, however, that you run DSpoolout from cron no more then
once every 5 minutes.  Heavy backbone transit points with lots of cpu
cycles can get away with running DSpoolout every 2 minutes if they really
want to, in which case the -s option really comes in handy.  A typical
news path of 8 elements will propogate in 5x8 = 40 minutes with a 5
minute queue run, and 16 minutes with a 2 minute queue run.
.PP
Many people proscribe real-time feeds.  Diablo tries to avoid real-time
feeds for two reasons:  First, they add complexity to the main server
and the additional system calls slow it down.  Second, real time feeds
can lead to a false sense of security and efficiency.  While it is true
that a real-time feed will make better use of the kernel file cache
then a queued feed, very few news servers can dependably rely on this
to maintain their feed rates... they MUST be designed to handle article
delays and failures.  A server running too close to the edge will experience
a NASTY cascade failure if it relies on the efficiency of the real time
feed to maintain the article feed rate.

.SH "REALTIME FEEDS"
.IR DSpoolout
is capable of maintaining a dnewslink on designated realtime feeds.  A feed
is specified as being realtime by using the 'realtime' option in the 
dnntpspool.ctl file (see the sample dnntpspool.ctl file).  This is really only
a near-real-time capability, since Diablo buffer's writes to outgoing queue
files.  For a nominal full feed, the delay is approximately 5 seconds.
.PP
The way it works is as follows:  dspoolout starts a dnewslink with the -r
option on the active outgoing feed file.  DSpoolout also operates normally,
attempting to start dnewslinks on any existing queue files up to a specified
limit.  When dspoolout is next run, it flushes and rotates as per normal.
The dnewslink -r sitting on the active file will get it renamed out from under.
It detects this condition and closes/reopens the new active file as well as 
aattempts to remove the old one if it has finished processing it and no errors
occured.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
diablo(8), 
dicmd(8),
didump(8),
diload(8),
dnewslink(8),
doutq(8),
dexpire(8),
dexpireover(8),
diconvhist(8),
dilookup(8),
dspoolout(8),
dkp(8),
dpath(8),
diablo-kp(5),
diablo-files(5)
.PP

